For this project we will be taking the database created in project 0 and converting it into a fully normalized database. 

@@@ Step 1 @@@
-----
Using the names of columns, write down all functional dependencies you observe in the data.
You only need to write the cannonical cover. You should include your ID column from last time, but no other columns.

For formatting you can just use sets of column names for example:

{blah} -> {Blue, color} For a functional dependency

Write down the normalized relations you are intending to create. Each relation should be in BCNF. Each decomposition should be lossless and dependency preserving. 

For formatting you can just use sets of column names for example:

Location(blah, blue, color) for the location relation (do not change any of the column names).
TO TURN IN:
A pdf document showing the functional dependencies and the final normalized relations. 

@@@ Step 2 @@@
----------
You should then write an SQL script that creates tables, and takes this data and divides it into those tables to reduce the functional dependencies. For this step, only worry about functional dependencies that have "name" as part of the column name.

In addition to normalization, you need to give each column the appropriate type and foreign key status. This means the only columns which should remain text are columns which have no better datatype. Cells which only contain the empty string should be changed to contain NULL.

I recommend you retain the script which creates the preliminary table from the previous project as a separate script so you don't need to rerun it every time.

Every row needs a new unique number to identify it and act as primary key) since there is no key in the original CSV. This should already be done from the previous project. This is the only new key for this project. 

---hints---
The columns which are completely null all the way through (such as Edit Status) can all be stored in a single table that will have only one row with all nulls, this will be useful for recreating the csv at the end in the next project. 

Columns with the word "name" are usually functionally dependent on a similar column which gives the code. There should be a table mapping codes to names, and the main table should only include the codes. https://files.consumerfinance.gov/hmda-historic-data-dictionaries/lar_record_codes.pdf is very helpful in figuring out how to do this. Though if there is a conflict between this site and the way the data is actually represented in the CSV follow the CSV.

NO field should have a text type in the main application table except perhaps respondent_id, they should all be numeric or one of the int datatypes. The text fields should be relegated to the secondary tables. For example, loan_type should appear in the main table as an int or smallint, and there should be a secondary table that connects it to loan_type_name.

For now, the "State" table will have only one row, the one for NJ, but should still include the name and abbreviation.  

@@@Step 3@@@
----------
You should then write an SQL script that creates tables, and takes this data and divides it into those tables to reduce the functional dependencies. The final table should also be in 1st normal form, meaning columns like appicant_race_2 should not exist. You can add any additional attibutes needed to put it in 1st normal form as long as you are adding fewer attributes than you are removing. 

You will then need to normalize the data. Specifically it must be in at least 3rd normal form, and preserve functional dependancies, and lossless decomposition. To decide which tables to use, you can start with your previous ER diagram as a guide. All data in the original file will need to be recoverable from your final database, but data redundancy should be limited by using 3NF. There is no need to create unnecessary tables, only create the tables needed to go into 3rd normal form.

You will need to create 2 new primary keys, you will need one for the application as a whole (in other words every row needs a new unique number to identify it and act as primary key) since there is no key in the original CSV. This should already be done from the previous project. 

You will also need a primary key for location, since no one column determines all location information. These can be any serial numbers, but should be unique to the location. These are the only two columns you should create after the initial normalization into 1st normal form.

Figuring out how to deal with location is probably the most difficult part of this project you may find the concat function helpful (though there are definitely many other ways to solve this problem). 

For the purpose of this problem assume that the entire relation is the only candidate key. In other words:The following columns relate to location (together) form a composite key that uniquely determine a location: 

county_code, msamd, state_code, census_tract_number, population ,minority_population,hud_median_family_income,tract_to_msamd_income,number_of_owner_occupied_units,number_of_1_to_4_family_units

You must create a simple integer primary key for each location, that key should be the only location information in the main application table.

columns such as applicant_race_1, applicant_race_2, applicant_race_3 etc. should not appear in any normalized table. Instead there should be a join table with, for example, 3 columns one for application_id one for race and one for race number. If only application race 1 is non-null this table will have only one row for with that application_id, and the last column would be 1. If both applicant_race_1 and applicant_race_2 are non-null then there will be 2 rows, one with the last column as 1 and one with the last column as 2. This is part of the initial normalization into 1st normal form.

TO TURN IN:
1. The preliminary script from the last project (project 0) if used as a basis for this project. If all necessary SQL code to turn the CSV into a normalized database is included you do not need to do this step.
2. The complete SQL script that creates the normalized database from the preliminary table
3. A video
   The video should show you running the SELECT * FROM TABLE; for each new table replace TABLE with the name of each of your new normalized tables. You may show only the first part of each table after which you can use q to exit. You can also include these commands in a script in order to run them faster in a video, showing only the output tables. No video should be more than 1 minute in length
   
@@@ Step 4 @@@
-------
Error Checking and Report generation

NOTHING THE USER CAN DO SHOULD EVER PUT THE DATABASE IN AN INCONSISTENT STATE, they should get an immediate rejection if they, for example, try to select a code of 4 for property type. This can be done with foreign keys.

You should use the given CSV to figure out which columns can be null and which cannot. Assume that any column that is never null in the real data can never be null.

You also need to be able to generate a csv report which is identical to the origional csv (except for order of the rows which can be different). This proves that your decomposition was lossless (since you can still recover the origional report). You may not use the preliminary table in any way when generating the report.

TO TURN IN:
1. An SQL script which takes your normalized database and puts it into a CSV
2. A video showing the incorrect attempts 
   Your video should show an attempt to run 3 incorrect insertion commands which the database rejects, it should show at least 3 different attempts rejected for different reasons as before no video should be more than 1 minute in lenght
   NOTE: we may try a different incorrect attempt in addition to watching your video.
3. A screenshot of the csv opened in a spreadsheet program showing it is identical to the origional csv (except for order of the rows which can be different)



